Kirk: SPACE:
THE FINAL FRONTIER.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO BOLDLY GO
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5275.6.
PREPARING TO BEAM ABOARD
THE ENTERPRISE,
FOLLOWING
THE SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION
OF DELIVERY OF
MEDICAL SUPPLIES
TO THE PLANET DRAMIA,
IN THE REMOTE
DRAMIAN STAR SYSTEM.
WE, OF DRAMIA,
WISH TO THANK YOU
AND THE OTHERS OF
YOUR FEDERATION,
FOR YOUR
INVALUABLE ASSISTANCE,
CAPTAIN KIRK.
WE HOPE, THROUGH OUR
MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,
TO DEVELOP AND STRENGTHEN
RELATIONS WITH STAR SYSTEMS
SUCH AS YOURS,
SUPREME PREFECT.
WELL, SHALL WE?
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
BEAM US ABOARD, SCOTTY.
IF YOU WOULD BE
SO KIND, CAPTAIN...
BELAY THAT, MR. SCOTT.
YES, SIR?
COMMANDER DEMOS?
I HAVE HERE A WARRANT
FOR THE ARREST AND TRIAL
OF ONE OF
YOUR PARTY, CAPTAIN.
WARRANT? WHO?
READ IT, CAPTAIN.
"YOU ARE HEREBY DIRECTED
TO SURRENDER FOR TRIAL
BY THE PEOPLE OF DRAMIA,
"DR. LEONARD McCOY,
MEDICAL OFFICER,
U.S.S. ENTERPRISE."
IS THIS SOME KIND OF JOKE?
THE WANTON SLAUGHTER
OF HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
IS NOT A JOKE, CAPTAIN.
SLAUGHTER?
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE?
ACCORDING TO THIS,
DR. McCOY WAS RESPONSIBLE
FOR A PLAGUE
WHICH RAVAGED THE PLANET
DRAMIA II
SOME 19 YEARS AGO, CAPTAIN.
LET ME SEE THAT.
AS YOU WILL NOTE, CAPTAIN,
THE WARRANT
IS PERFECTLY IN ORDER,
APPROVED BY YOUR
OWN FEDERATION.
DR. McCOY ARRESTED?
FOR MURDER, CAPTAIN?
SIR, IF YOU WANT ME
AND SOME OF THE MEN
TO BEAM DOWN, JUST IN CASE...
Kirk: NO, MR. SCOTT.
THE WARRANT'S LEGAL.
MR. SPOCK AND I
ARE AT THE HALL OF JUSTICE.
WE'LL KEEP YOU INFORMED.
Demos: YOUR DR. McCOY HEADED
A MASS INOCULATION PROGRAM
ON DRAMIA II,
19 YEARS AGO.
WHEN HIS FORCE LEFT,
A MASSIVE PLAGUE
STRUCK THE PLANET,
KILLING MOST OF ITS PEOPLE.
THAT DOESN'T MEAN HE WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR IT.
HIS TRIAL WILL TELL,
CAPTAIN.
TRIAL?
YOU MEAN KANGAROO COURT!
I'VE HEARD ABOUT
DRAMIAN JUSTICE.
CAPTAIN,
YOU'RE BECOMING EMOTIONAL.
OF COURSE I AM!
BONES HARMING OTHER BEINGS.
YOU KNOW BETTER, SPOCK.
I KNOW BETTER. NOT BONES.
I WISH I COULD BE
AS SURE, JIM.
I... I JUST DON'T KNOW.
IS IT POSSIBLE
THAT I REALLY DID?
Kirk: NONSENSE!
THE TERMINATION
OF YOUR INOCULATION PROGRAM
AND THE SUBSEQUENT
OUTBREAK OF PLAGUE
COULD HAVE BEEN COINCIDENCE,
DOCTOR.
OR A TRAGIC MISTAKE
ON MY PART.
I DON'T BUY THAT, BONES.
-GUARD!
-WHAT NOW, CAPTAIN?
SOME PRE-TRIAL INVESTIGATION,
MR. SPOCK.
ON DRAMIA II.
DO NOT BE ASSURED
BY YOUR FRIENDS' PLANS.
DRAMIAN JUSTICE IS SWIFT,
TOO SWIFT FOR THEM
TO SAVE YOU, PERHAPS.
-ANYTHING YET, MR. SPOCK?
-NO, CAPTAIN.
THE HISTORICAL RECORDS
OF THIS SOLAR SYSTEM
ARE SPOTTY, AT BEST,
GOING BACK 19 YEARS.
MOSTLY,
THEY'RE TECHNICAL DATA,
METEOR SHOWERS, AURORAS,
RADIATION REPORTS.
Kirk: THERE IT IS.
"PLAGUE, DRAMIA II.
"OF UNKNOWN ORIGIN,
CHARACTERIZED BY
PIGMENTATION CHANGES
"IN SKIN OF VICTIM,
DEBILITATION, DEATH.
"CERTAIN SPECIES KNOWN
TO HAVE NATURAL IMMUNITY,
"NOTABLY, VULCAN."
HMM, INTERESTING.
GO ON, MR. SPOCK.
-YOU ARE SURE?
-YES, COMMANDER.
THE EARTH CAPTAIN IS PLANNING
TO VISIT DRAMIA II,
TO INVESTIGATE THE CASE.
READY A PATROL SHIP!
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5275.8.
UNDERWAY
FOR PLANET DRAMIA II,
FOR INVESTIGATION
OF McCOY CASE.
WE ARE BEYOND SUBSPACE
COMMUNICATIONS
WITH STARFLEET.
AM PROCEEDING
UNDER MY OWN AUTHORITY.
Kirk: ESTIMATED TIME
OF ARRIVAL, MR. SULU?
APPROXIMATELY FOUR HOURS,
CAPTAIN.
INCREASE TO WARP 6,
MR. SCOTT.
WE MAY BE RACING
AGAINST TIME,
IF I KNOW DRAMIAN
JUSTICE METHODS.
AYE, AYE, CAPTAIN!
-SHIP IN PURSUIT, CAPTAIN.
-ORIGIN?
Sulu: I'D SAY DRAMIA, SIR.
IT APPEARS TO BE
A ONE-MAN CRAFT.
SHALL I MAKE CONTACT, SIR?
YES. BELAY THAT, LIEUTENANT.
YOU'RE PLANNING SOMETHING,
CAPTAIN?
UNLESS I MISS MY GUESS,
THAT'S FRIEND DEMOS.
-WHAT IF HE ATTACKS, SIR?
-WHY SHOULD HE?
WE HAVEN'T CONTACTED HIM,
SO WE MUST NOT
HAVE DETECTED HIM.
HE'D HAVE TO EXPLAIN
AN ATTACK.
BESIDES,
HE'LL PROBABLY PREFER
TO SNEAK ABOARD,
SEEING
THAT WE CARELESSLY LEFT
THE HANGAR DOORS OPEN.
BUT THE HANGAR DOORS
AREN'T OPEN, CAPTAIN.
AH, YES.
TAKE CARE OF THAT OVERSIGHT,
WILL YOU, MR. SULU?
[BEEPING]
[DOOR OPENING]
NOW, NOW, DEMOS.
YOU'RE HARDLY IN A POSITION
TO TAKE ON AN ENTIRE CREW.
AND YOU ARE NOT IN AUTHORITY
TO CONDUCT AN INVESTIGATION
IN OUR STAR SYSTEM.
YOU WILL REMIND ME
TO REPORT MY CONDUCT
TO THE FEDERATION,
-WON'T YOU, MR. SPOCK?
-OF COURSE, CAPTAIN.
I DEMAND THAT YOU REPORT
TO THE FEDERATION NOW!
I WOULD,
BUT UNFORTUNATELY WE'RE OUT
OF COMMUNICATIONS RANGE.
THEN I WILL
PROCEED TO YOUR STARBASE
AND REPORT YOUR ACT.
SORRY, COMMANDER.
YOUR SHIP IS, UM, IMPOUNDED.
YOU ARE A STOWAWAY,
COMMANDER.
I HAVE BEEN TRICKED!
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5275.9.
WE ARE APPROACHING DRAMIA II,
WHERE WE HOPE
TO FIND THE ANSWERS
CONCERNING THE QUESTION
OF DR. McCOY'S GUILT
OR INNOCENCE.
SITUATION NORMAL.
AURORA REPORTED
IN THE SECTOR, HOWEVER.
RADIATION LEVEL,
MR. SULU?
INTENSE, CAPTAIN.
DECIDEDLY NON-LETHAL,
HOWEVER.
GOOD. THEN IT'S SAFE FOR US
TO BEAM DOWN TO DRAMIA II.
SHALL WE, GENTLEMEN?
YOU'RE SURE IT'S SAFE,
CAPTAIN?
ABSOLUTELY.
DECIDEDLY.
THERE'S A DIFFERENCE,
CAPTAIN.
NOW, NOW, MR. SPOCK,
YOU'RE NOT TRYING
TO SCARE OUR DRAMIAN FRIEND,
ARE YOU?
OF COURSE, YOU CAN BACK OUT
IF YOU'D LIKE, COMMANDER.
I GO.
YOU HEARD THE MAN,
MR. SCOTT.
NOT THE MOST ENCHANTING PLACE
I'VE EVER BEEN TO.
PLAGUES SELDOM LEAVE BEHIND
FIELDS OF FLOWERS, CAPTAIN.
TROUBLE?
THEY DO NOT LIKE OUTSIDERS.
SURELY YOU'RE NOT AN OUTSIDER,
COMMANDER. YOU ARE DRAMIAN.
THE DISTINCTION HERE
IS BETWEEN THE WORLD
OF THE LIVING
AND THE WORLD
OF THE WALKING DEAD.
INHOSPITABLE OR NOT,
HE MUSTN'T GET AWAY.
Kirk: WAIT!
Kirk: HE DISAPPEARED.
IT'S ALMOST AS IF
HE DEMATERIALIZED.
NOT LIKELY, CAPTAIN.
Demos: I WOULD ADVISE
AGAINST THAT, CAPTAIN.
I'M SURE YOU WON'T MIND
IF I IGNORE YOUR ADVICE.
CAUTION WOULD
SEEM TO BE ADVISABLE,
CAPTAIN.
BONES' LIFE
IS ON THE LINE,
MR. SPOCK.
CAVE DWELLERS?
IN THE MIDST OF
YOUR CIVILIZATION?
A RESULT OF YOUR DR. McCOY
AND HIS INHUMANE METHODS.
YOU SAY IT, DEMOS,
BUT THAT DOESN'T...
[YELLING]
[CREATURE SOBBING]
HE ATTACKED YOU
BECAUSE YOU ARE
AN EARTHLING, CAPTAIN,
EVEN AS WAS McCOY.
BUT HOW DID HE
SURVIVE THE PLAGUE?
HE, LIKE
THE OTHERS WHO REMAIN HERE,
WAS AWAY AT THE TIME.
THEY RETURNED
TO THEIR PLANET
TO FIND THAT THEIR FAMILIES
HAD SUCCUMBED TO THE PLAGUE.
HE AND A FEW OTHERS,
SENSELESS IN THEIR GRIEF,
CHOSE TO LIVE HERE,
IN DESOLATION.
YOU SEE, CAPTAIN,
THERE WERE NO
ACTUAL SURVIVORS.
YOU ARE WRONG.
THERE WAS A SURVIVOR.
I, KOL-TAI, SURVIVED.
BY WHAT MIRACLE,
I DO NOT KNOW.
THEN YOU CAN TELL US.
DO YOU REMEMBER?
I REMEMBER PEOPLE
ALL ABOUT ME,
BECOMING BLUE IN COLOR,
THEN GREEN
AND FINALLY RED.
THE PIGMENTATION CHANGES
ASSOCIATED
WITH THE DISEASE
IN OUR COMPUTER RECORDS,
CAPTAIN.
KOL-TAI.
DR. McCOY--
DO YOU REMEMBER HIM?
THE EARTH DOCTOR.
HE SAVED MY LIFE.
HE TREATED ME
FOR SAURIAN VIRUS.
A MAN WHO SAVES
DOES NOT ALSO KILL,
COMMANDER.
BEAM US ABOARD,
MR. SCOTT. QUICKLY.
Scotty: AYE, AYE, SIR.
LET'S GET UNDERWAY
FOR DRAMIA.
SIR, WHO IS THAT?
MEET KOL-TAI, MR. SCOTT.
A FRIEND OF DR. McCOY'S.
WARP 6, SCOTTY.
I'LL POUR ON THE COAL,
CAPTAIN.
-MR. SPOCK?
-Spock: YES, CAPTAIN?
Kirk: HOW'S OUR
NUMBER ONE PASSENGER DOING?
CLEAN, FED,
IN GOOD HEALTH, AND RESTING.
GOOD.
WE WANT HIM TO BE
A STERLING WITNESS.
Sulu: APPROACHING DRAMIA,
CAPTAIN.
Kirk: LET'S HOPE THE TRIAL
HASN'T STARTED.
Spock: CAPTAIN.
Kirk: YES, MR. SPOCK,
WHAT IS IT?
Spock:
THE TRIAL MAY BE ACADEMIC.
ACADEMIC?
YES, CAPTAIN.
KOL-TAI IS TURNING BLUE.
Demos: THE PLAGUE!
SET UP AN IMMEDIATE QUARANTINE,
LIEUTENANT.
HE IS HARDLY FIT
TO TESTIFY AT THE TRIAL,
CAPTAIN.
WE'VE GOT TO SAVE HIM!
FOR McCOY'S SAKE.
YES, FOR McCOY'S SAKE.
AND FOR KOL-TAI'S SAKE, TOO.
YOU SEE, COMMANDER,
WE DO PLACE A VALUE
ON LIFE, ALL LIFE!
DOES THAT SHOCK YOU,
COMMANDER?
IT IS NOT THAT.
IT IS...
CAPTAIN, YOU'RE BLUE.
[THUDDING]
MR. SPOCK, TAKE COMMAND.
Spock: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5276.4.
WE ARE IN ORBIT
AROUND THE PLANET DRAMIA,
UNDER THE CONDITIONS
OF GENERAL QUARANTINE.
AS COMMANDING OFFICER,
I HAVE ORDERED
THE ACTIVATION
OF GENERAL ORDER 6.
GENERAL ORDER 6
HAS BEEN ACTIVATED?
YES, SIR.
IF EVERYONE
ON BOARD HAS PERISHED
AT THE END OF 24 HOURS,
THE SHIP
WILL SELF-DESTRUCT
IN ORDER TO PROTECT
OTHER BEINGS
FROM THE DISEASE
ON BOARD.
GOOD.
REPORT TO SICKBAY, MR. SULU.
BUT, SIR,
WHO WILL MONITOR?
I ASSURE YOU I AM CAPABLE,
MR. SULU.
MR. SPOCK...
CAPTAIN, YOUR CONDITION.
WE HAVE TO GET McCOY.
MUST FIND AN ANTIDOTE.
THIS IS THE ENTERPRISE.
I MUST SPEAK WITH
THE SUPREME PREFECT.
WHY DO YOU SPEAK
AND NOT YOUR CAPTAIN?
THE CAPTAIN
AND ALL OF THE CREW MEMBERS
ARE INCAPACITATED.
THE PLAGUE IS ABOARD
THE ENTERPRISE.
DEMOS?
THE SAME.
YOU MUST RELEASE DR. McCOY
TEMPORARILY.
HE IS NEEDED TO FIND
AN ANTIDOTE.
NO.
WE HAVE A WITNESS
IN McCOY'S BEHALF.
YOU MUST TRUST ME.
LET THE WITNESS SPEAK.
IMPOSSIBLE.
HE, TOO, IS STRICKEN.
DEMOS CANNOT SPEAK,
THE WITNESS CANNOT SPEAK.
YET YOU WISH US
TO RELEASE THE PRISONER,
McCOY.
YOUR TREACHERY
IS TRANSPARENT, VULCAN.
GOT TO GET McCOY.
IF YOU'LL PERMIT ME,
CAPTAIN,
I MIGHT BE ABLE
TO GET McCOY.
SPOCK, YOU'RE SURE...
I CAN'T INFECT THE PLANET,
CAPTAIN.
AND I CAN GET McCOY.
SPOCK! WHAT IN THE WORLD...
LATER, DOCTOR.
SPOCK, HAVE YOU AND JIM
GONE OUT OF YOUR MINDS?
WHY, THIS IS A JAILBREAK!
DOCTOR,
JUST COME WITH ME, PLEASE.
NO, SPOCK! IT'S ILLEGAL!
THAT'S WHAT IT IS!
BESIDES,
I MUST STAND TRIAL.
I HAVE TO FIND OUT.
DOCTOR,
YOU WILL STAND TRIAL,
YOU WILL FIND OUT,
AFTER YOU'VE
FOUND AN ANTIDOTE
FOR THE PLAGUE
WHICH IS ABOUT TO
KILL EVERYONE ABOARD
THE ENTERPRISE.
PLAGUE?
WHY DIDN'T YOU TELL ME?
YOU WOULDN'T
GIVE ME A CHANCE.
YOU REALIZE, DOCTOR,
IF YOU GO
AND FAIL TO FIND
AN ANTIDOTE,
YOU, TOO, WILL DIE.
I'M A DOCTOR,
SPOCK, A DOCTOR!
GET US BEAMED ABOARD!
BEAM US ABOARD, CAPTAIN.
JIM!
ANYTHING, SPOCK?
NEGATIVE, DOCTOR.
THE FILE ON ALL
KNOWN DISEASES
DOESN'T RECOGNIZE THESE SYMPTOMS
OF PIGMENTATION CHANGES.
BLAST IT, SPOCK,
WORK HARDER!
THEY'RE IN
THE TERMINAL STAGE.
MY READINGS KEEP SHIFTING.
IT MUST BE THE ACTIVITY
OF THAT BLASTED AURORA!
BONES, THAT'S IT.
AURORA, CHANGING COLOR.
JIM? AURORA? WHAT...
McCoy on intercom:
SPOCK, FEED IN THE DATA
WITHOUT MENTIONING
THE COLOR CHANGE SYMPTOMS.
Spock: THAT'S IT, DOCTOR.
THE COLOR CHANGE SYMPTOMS
WERE MISLEADING THE COMPUTER.
BECAUSE THEY WERE CAUSED
BY THE AURORA!
SPOCK, THERE WAS AN AURORA
19 YEARS AGO. I REMEMBER...
Spock: WHICH BROUGHT ON
THE PARTICULAR PLAGUE,
JUST AS THIS AURORA
HAS BROUGHT IT ON.
I DIDN'T DO IT!
SPOCK, THE DISEASE, WHAT IS IT?
WHAT'S THE ANTIDOTE?
THAT'S THE PROBLEM, DOCTOR.
THERE IS NO KNOWN ANTIDOTE.
HOWEVER, DOCTOR, DO YOU REMEMBER
A CERTAIN KOL-TAI?
A MAN YOU TREATED
FOR SAURIAN VIRUS?
YES, I THINK I DO.
BUT WHAT HAS THAT GOT
TO DO WITH ANYTHING?
POSSIBLY NOTHING.
HOWEVER,
KOL-TAI DID SURVIVE
THE FIRST PLAGUE.
SPOCK, I SEE WHAT YOU MEAN!
SAURIAN VIRUS ANTIBODIES
IN HIS BLOOD,
THAT'S WHAT MADE HIM IMMUNE.
I PRESUME, DOCTOR,
THAT YOU HAVE A SUPPLY
OF LIVE SAURIAN VIRUS ANTIBODIES
IN YOUR LABORATORY?
BONES, YOU DID IT!
AGAIN.
THANK YOU, DOCTOR.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5276.8.
PREPARING TO BEAM ABOARD
THE ENTERPRISE,
FOLLOWING
THE DRAMIAN CEREMONIES
HONORING DR. LEONARD McCOY
FOR HIS
SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS
IN THE FIELD OF
INTERSTELLAR MEDICINE.
WE OF DRAMIA
WISH TO THANK YOU, DOCTOR,
FOR YOUR DISCOVERY
OF THE ANTIDOTE
WHICH FREES US
FROM FUTURE ATTACKS
OF THE AURORAL PLAGUE.
THANK MR. SPOCK, TOO.
AND CAPTAIN KIRK.
WE WILL EVEN
FORGET ABOUT THE, UH,
UNORTHODOX MANNER
OF YOUR RELEASE, DOCTOR.
AND WE'LL FORGET ABOUT
A CERTAIN STOWAWAY.
WE MUST APOLOGIZE.
I THINK IT'S TIME
WE GOT ABOARD SHIP,
ISN'T IT, JIM?
BEAM US ABOARD, MR. SCOTT.
Scotty: AYE, AYE, CAPTAIN.
GENTLEMEN,
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU,
BUT I'M READY TO GET
BACK TO STARBASE.
YES, SIR!
AND I'M READY TO GET BACK
TO SOME OF THAT MONOTONOUS,
OLD, ROUTINE SICKBAY WORK.
INCLUDING, I WOULD HOPE,
SOME OF THAT MONOTONOUS,
OLD DISPENSING OF THE REGULAR
VITAMIN RATIONS TO THE CREW.
WHAT IS THAT
SUPPOSED TO MEAN?
WELL, YOU HAVE BEEN
DERELICT IN YOUR DUTIES
OF LATE, DOCTOR.
SPOCK, YOU KNOW
AS WELL AS I DO
WHAT WE'VE ALL
JUST BEEN THROUGH.
HIPPOCRATES
WOULD NOT HAVE APPROVED
OF LAME EXCUSES, DOCTOR.
WHY, THAT...
THAT...
JIM,
IF I'M EVER IN JAIL AGAIN,
DON'T SEND THAT VULCAN
TO RELEASE ME.
JUST LET ME ROT!
[LAUGHING]